README.md, before:

# Drupal image without database

This image contains the latest stable Drupal 7-release. It will automatically
setup the database and install a default site for you.

The image doesn't contain a database so you have to create a seperate database
container and link this container or pass the database information of a
MySQL-host.


## Why create another Drupal image?

Many of the other Drupal images got a database baked in or didn't install Drupal
automatically and didn't offer much flexibity. This image can be easily be used
as base image for your own Drupal images see below Customization by using
Dockerfiles.

This image uses `drush` to install a default site and creates the database on
the database-server if none exists yet.


## Usage

If you want to launch a bare drupal image you can do so:

    docker run -d -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD="test123" --name db mysql
    docker run -d --link db:mysql -p 80:80 samos123/drupal

Alternatively you can use [Docker-Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
in a directory that contains the provided [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/samos123/docker-tutum-drupal/blob/master/docker-compose.yml):

    docker-compose up

This will launch a new drupal site with a default theme and no additional
modules. If you want custom modules, see *Customization*.


## Database options

You can use a linked database-container as shown above or use an external
database-host. Therefore pass the following environment variables to your
container:
  - `DB_HOST`
  - `DB_PORT` (default: `3306`)
  - `DB_NAME` (default: `drupal`)
  - `DB_USER` (default: `root`)
  - `DB_PASS`


## Other options

  - `UPLOAD_LIMIT` (default: `10M`) - sets variables for the *PHP*-interpreter
    to control maximum upload sizes
  - `MEMORY_LIMIT` (default: `64M`) - sets the [`memory_limit`](http://php.net/manual/en/ini.core.php#ini.memory-limit)
     for the *PHP*-interpreter


## Customiziation

To run a script that customizes the initial setup, add it to your derived
image or mount it in your container and pass the variable `EXTRA_SETUP_SCRIPT`
naming its absolute path when the container runs the first time.

See the [folder examples](https://github.com/samos123/docker-tutum-drupal/tree/master/examples)
of how to use the Zen template and google-analytics and build an image
containing them.

See the [documentation of php:apache](https://github.com/docker-library/php/) on
the usage of `docker-php-ext-configure` and `docker-php-ext-install` to install
PHP extensions.


## Credits

Authors of image: Sam Stoelinga, Frank Sachsenheim

Source code: [https://github.com/samos123/docker-tutum-drupal](https://github.com/samos123/docker-tutum-drupal)

Registry url: [https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/samos123/drupal/](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/samos123/drupal/)

Commit message:

Make httpd's ServerName and Drupal's $base_url configurable
- see README.md for explanation
- also adds a files-folder in sites/default to the Docker-build-context that
  will last over a git-commit

Signed-off-by: Frank Sachsenheim <funkyfuture@riseup.net>

README.md, after:

# Drupal image without database

This image contains the latest stable Drupal 7-release. It will automatically
setup the database and install a default site for you.

The image doesn't contain a database so you have to create a seperate database
container and link this container or pass the database information of a
MySQL-host.


## Why create another Drupal image?

Many of the other Drupal images got a database baked in or didn't install Drupal
automatically and didn't offer much flexibity. This image can be easily be used
as base image for your own Drupal images see below Customization by using
Dockerfiles.

This image uses `drush` to install a default site and creates the database on
the database-server if none exists yet.


## Usage

If you want to launch a bare drupal image you can do so:

    docker run -d -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD="test123" --name db mysql
    docker run -d --link db:mysql -p 80:80 samos123/drupal

Alternatively you can use [Docker-Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
in a directory that contains the provided [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/samos123/docker-tutum-drupal/blob/master/docker-compose.yml):

    docker-compose up

This will launch a new drupal site with a default theme and no additional
modules. If you want custom modules, see *Customization*.


## Database options

You can use a linked database-container as shown above or use an external
database-host. Therefore pass the following environment variables to your
container:
  - `DB_HOST`
  - `DB_PORT` (default: `3306`)
  - `DB_NAME` (default: `drupal`)
  - `DB_USER` (default: `root`)
  - `DB_PASS`


## Other options

  - `VIRTUAL_HOST` - sets the `ServerName`-directive for *httpd* and *Drupal*'s
    `base_url` configuration variable; handy in conjunction with
    [jwilder/nginx-proxy](https://github.com/jwilder/nginx-proxy)
    - if it is a comma-seperated list, the first value is used
  - `SERVERNAME` - use this to explicitlty set httpd's `ServerName`-directive
    - if none of these both variables are given, the hostname will be used
  - `BASE_URL` - explicitly set the `base_url` configuration variable for *Drupal*
    - trailing slashes are not allowed
  - `UPLOAD_LIMIT` (default: `10M`) - sets variables for the *PHP*-interpreter
    to control maximum upload sizes
  - `MEMORY_LIMIT` (default: `64M`) - sets the [`memory_limit`](http://php.net/manual/en/ini.core.php#ini.memory-limit)
     for the *PHP*-interpreter


## Customiziation

To run a script that customizes the initial setup, add it to your derived
image or mount it in your container and pass the variable `EXTRA_SETUP_SCRIPT`
naming its absolute path when the container runs the first time.

See the [folder examples](https://github.com/samos123/docker-tutum-drupal/tree/master/examples)
of how to use the Zen template and google-analytics and build an image
containing them.

See the [documentation of php:apache](https://github.com/docker-library/php/) on
the usage of `docker-php-ext-configure` and `docker-php-ext-install` to install
PHP extensions.


## Credits

Authors of image: Sam Stoelinga, Frank Sachsenheim

Source code: [https://github.com/samos123/docker-tutum-drupal](https://github.com/samos123/docker-tutum-drupal)

Registry url: [https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/samos123/drupal/](https://registry.hub.docker.com/u/samos123/drupal/)
